coding interviews are hard so much so
that there's nerds out there solving
hundreds of leak code problems just to
get ahead but is that really necessary
do we really live in a world where you
need to solve Cherry pickup a
three-dimensional dynamic programming
problem just to get a job I don't think
so yes technically anything can come up
in an interview but I think there's a
smarter way to prepare why not
prioritize the concepts that are easiest
to learn but also are most likely to
come up in interviews Well because most
people don't know what those are but
with my background I think I do arrays
are the first data structure that we all
learn about and that's because they're
simple but there's surprisingly a lot of
non-trivial algorithms relevant to
arrays I'm not just talking about binary
search and sorting but also two-pointers
the sliding window and if we want to get
fancy we can even do some pre-processing
by Computing the prefix sums of an array
to solve certain problems more
efficiently and the good thing is most
of these algorithms are actually not
very complicated once you understand
them but if I were you I wouldn't just
understand them I would get so good at
them that solving a simple binary search
or a sliding window problem feels as
easy as writing a for Loop even if that
means you have to go back and resolve
the same easy problem multiple times a
lot of people will struggle with more
ult problems and that's because they
don't have a really really good grasp of
the basics and actually arrays are so
all-encompassing that many other
patterns can also be applied to them
like Stacks greedy algorithms and of
course everyone's favorite dynamic
programming another broad concept is
recursive decision trees you might be
thinking doesn't the specific pattern
actually matter like recursion can be
applied to trees it can be applied to
backtracking well yes no one is born
knowing those Concepts you'll have to
learn them but if you have a very strong
fundamental understanding of decision
trees you can solve a wide variety of
problems from binary trees backtracking
problems combinatorics dynamic
programming and sometimes even graph
problems if you've gone through the N
code 150 list or road map and watched my
videos you've probably got tired of me
talking about decision trees decision
tree decision tree decision tree so we
have but that's because there are such
an easy way for us humans to understand
the intuition of complex algorithms
graphs are a massive topic it's
literally a sub branch of mathematics
that's why some of the craziest problems
you might have seen are graph problems
but at the heart of graph problems are
two relatively simple algorithms DFS and
BFS you probably first learned about
these algorithms with binary trees
because trees are just a special type of
graph but I really can't overstate how
important these two algorithms are you
should definitely be able to apply these
two on both Matrix graphs as well as
adjacency lists because even though you
may be implementing the same algorithm
depending on the structure of the graph
the code can be quite different but
again don't just get surface level
knowledge I would recommend you to
really understand them like you should
be able to tell me what would go wrong
if I removed any of these lines of code
without this we might get an index out
of bounds error without this one we
might get stuck in an infinite Loop
without this one we might overcount the
solution I know some people will say who
cares this sucks it's not relevant to my
job anyway and that's a fair point but I
don't think it's bad to be able to
deeply understand a pretty fundamental
algorithm like depth first search The
Forbidden Jutsu of the algorithm's world
is definitely the hashmap whether you're
using it to count the occurrences of
characters in a string or using it to
build an adjacency list for graph
problems it's almost certainly going to
be useful in your interviews there's not
much to talk about because thankfully
hashmaps are pretty easy to use but if
you're struggling to optimize your
solution the first question you should
ask yourself is would a hashmap be
helpful here heaps are also pretty
simple they have a sorted property
either as a minimum Heap or a maximum
Heap they support log and time
insertions log and time removals of
either the minimum or the maximum
element constant lookup time and lastly
heapify can transform a set of values
into a heap in O of n time that's
relevant because it's more efficient
than inserting elements one by one if
you're given all the elements up front
we can't end this video without talking
about dynamic programming we all know
that it's difficult to learn but it's
not as common as people think it is I
would definitely prioritize it after all
of the other Concepts I've talked about
in this video but if you are going to
learn it I would mainly focus on the
most common and famous dynamic
programming problems like the longest
common subsequence problem the coin
change problem and several others that
are included in the neat code 150 list
yeah it's theoretically possible you'll
get asked a question like Cherry pickup
2 yeah Cherry pickup 2 because the first
one wasn't hard enough but let's be
honest even if you've literally solved
this problem before there's still a high
chance you won't be able to solve this
in a real interview but that's all I
really wanted to talk about I see a lot
of people nowadays solving hundreds and
hundreds of problems and there's nothing
wrong with that but if your goal is just
to prepare for interviews and maximize
your chances with the least amount of
effort possible like doing a reasonable
amount of preparation I would highly
recommend focusing on the most important
Concepts that I talked about